# Conda/Python in Linux

> **Install miniconda (python & pip included) in Linux**
>
> see more in [Recommended Software for Python](https://book.ncrnalab.org/teaching/part-i.-programming-skills/3.python#id-4-recommended-software-for-python)


##  1.Install miniconda

**(need to repeat it for each user)**

清华镜像网站安装帮助： <https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/help/anaconda/>

Miniconda 是一个 Anaconda 的轻量级替代，默认只包含了 python 和 conda，但是可以通过 pip 和 conda 来安装所需要的包。Miniconda 安装包可以到以下链接下载。

<https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/anaconda/miniconda/>


```bash
# step 1. download the installation script
wget https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/anaconda/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

# step 2. install
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

## 2. Example of pip install: mkdocs

> **Install mkdocs using pip** (need to repeat it for each user)
> 
> See detailed instructions in [**mkdocs-material official site**](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/)

```bash
# 1. Intall mkdocs for each user
pip install mkdocs-material

# 2. Install more plugins for each user
pip install mkdocs-glightbox mkdocs-video mkdocs-audio mkdocs-callouts mkdocs-redirects
# pip install mkdocs-encryptcontent-plugin

# 3. Setup shortcuts in ~/shortcuts for each user

```


## 3. Example of conda install: samtools

>[!warning] 
>
> The following instuction was generated by AI. It has not been tested yet.
> (I think you should be able to learn more from AI than from me today.)

Installing bioinformatics software using Conda, particularly through the Bioconda channel, involves a few key steps:

* (1) Install Conda.

If you don't already have it, install Miniconda (a lightweight version of Anaconda) or Anaconda.

* (2) Add Bioconda and Conda-Forge channels.

These channels contain a vast collection of bioinformatics software. You can add them to your Conda configuration using:

```bash
    conda config --add channels bioconda
    conda config --add channels conda-forge
    conda config --set channel_priority strict
```

> The channel_priority strict setting ensures that packages are preferentially installed from the highest-priority channels, reducing potential dependency conflicts.


* (3) Create a new Conda environment (recommended).

To manage dependencies and avoid conflicts between different software, it is best practice to create a dedicated environment for each tool or project.

```bash
    conda create -n my_bioinformatics_env
```

> Replace my_bioinformatics_env with a descriptive name for your environment. You can also specify a Python version if needed: conda create -n my_bioinformatics_env python=3.9. 

* (4) Activate the environment.

```bash
    conda activate my_bioinformatics_env
```

* (5) Install the desired bioinformatics software.

Once the environment is active, you can install packages using conda install. 

For example, to install samtools:

```bash
    conda install samtools
```

> You can also install specific versions: conda install bwa=0.7.17.


* (6) Deactivate the environment. 

When you are finished using the software in an environment, you can deactivate it:

```bash
    conda deactivate
```

> [!Tips] Suggested by AI:
>
>  You can also use Mamba, a faster alternative to Conda, for installing packages, especially when dealing with many dependencies. The commands are similar, replacing conda with mamba. For example: mamba install samtools.